4.4 Special Features for Use in Actions

Here is a table of Bison constructs, variables and macros that are useful in
actions.

- Variable: $$

	Acts like a variable that contains the semantic value for the
	grouping made by the current rule. See Actions. 

- Variable: $n

	Acts like a variable that contains the semantic value for the
	nth component of the current rule. See Actions. 

- Variable: $<typealt>$

	Like $$ but specifies alternative typealt in the union
	specified by the %union declaration. See Data Types of Values
	in Actions. 

- Variable: $<typealt>n

	Like $n but specifies alternative typealt in the union
	specified by the
	%union declaration. See Data Types of Values in Actions. 

- Macro: YYABORT;

	Return immediately from yyparse, indicating failure. See The
	Parser Function yyparse. 

- Macro: YYACCEPT;

	Return immediately from yyparse, indicating success. See The
	Parser Function yyparse. 

- Macro: YYBACKUP (token, value);

	Unshift a token. This macro is allowed only for rules that
	reduce a single value, and only when there is no look-ahead
	token. It is also disallowed in GLR parsers. It installs a
	look-ahead token with token type token and semantic value
	value; then it discards the value that was going to be reduced
	by this rule.

	If the macro is used when it is not valid, such as when there
	is a look-ahead token already, then it reports a syntax error
	with a message `cannot back up' and performs ordinary error
	recovery.

	In either case, the rest of the action is not executed. 

- Macro: YYEMPTY

	Value stored in yychar when there is no look-ahead token. 

- Macro: YYEOF

	Value stored in yychar when the look-ahead is the end of the
	input stream. 

- Macro: YYERROR;

	Cause an immediate syntax error. This statement initiates
	error recovery just as if the parser itself had detected an
	error; however, it does not call yyerror, and does not print
	any message. If you want to print an error message, call
	yyerror explicitly before the `YYERROR;' statement. See Error
	Recovery. 

- Macro: YYRECOVERING

	The expression YYRECOVERING () yields 1 when the parser is
	recovering from a syntax error, and 0 otherwise. See Error
	Recovery. 

- Variable: yychar

	Variable containing either the look-ahead token, or YYEOF when
	the look-ahead is the end of the input stream, or YYEMPTY when
	no look-ahead has been performed so the next token is not yet
	known. Do not modify yychar in a deferred semantic action (see
	GLR Semantic Actions). See Look-Ahead Tokens. 

- Macro: yyclearin;

	Discard the current look-ahead token. This is useful primarily
	in error rules. Do not invoke yyclearin in a deferred semantic
	action (see GLR Semantic Actions). See Error Recovery. 

- Macro: yyerrok;

	Resume generating error messages immediately for subsequent
	syntax errors.  This is useful primarily in error rules. See
	Error Recovery. 

- Variable: yylloc

	Variable containing the look-ahead token location when yychar
	is not set to YYEMPTY or YYEOF. Do not modify yylloc in a
	deferred semantic action (see GLR Semantic Actions). See
	Actions and Locations. 

- Variable: yylval

	Variable containing the look-ahead token semantic value when
	yychar is not set to YYEMPTY or YYEOF. Do not modify yylval in
	a deferred semantic action (see GLR Semantic Actions). See
	Actions. 

- Value: @$

	Acts like a structure variable containing information on the
	textual location of the grouping made by the current rule. See
	Tracking Locations. 

- Value: @n

	Acts like a structure variable containing information on the
	textual location of the nth component of the current rule. See
	Tracking Locations. 

