3.7.11 Bison Declaration Summary

Here is a summary of the declarations used to define a grammar:

- Directive: %union

	Declare the collection of data types that semantic values may have
	(see The Collection of Value Types). 

- Directive: %token

	Declare a terminal symbol (token type name) with no precedence or
	associativity specified (see Token Type Names). 

- Directive: %right

	Declare a terminal symbol (token type name) that is
	right-associative (see Operator Precedence). 

- Directive: %left

	Declare a terminal symbol (token type name) that is left-associative
	(see Operator Precedence). 

- Directive: %nonassoc

	Declare a terminal symbol (token type name) that is nonassociative
	(see Operator Precedence). Using it in a way that would be
	associative is a syntax error. 

- Directive: %type

	Declare the type of semantic values for a nonterminal symbol (see
	Nonterminal Symbols). 

- Directive: %start

	Specify the grammar's start symbol (see The Start-Symbol). 

- Directive: %expect

	Declare the expected number of shift-reduce conflicts (see
	Suppressing Conflict Warnings). 

	In order to change the behavior of bison, use the following
	directives: — Directive: %debug

	In the parser file, define the macro YYDEBUG to 1 if it is not
	already defined, so that the debugging facilities are compiled. 

	See Tracing Your Parser.

- Directive: %defines

	Write a header file containing macro definitions for the token type
	names defined in the grammar as well as a few other declarations. If
	the parser output file is named name.c then this file is named
	name.h.

	Unless YYSTYPE is already defined as a macro, the output header
	declares YYSTYPE. Therefore, if you are using a %union (see More
	Than One Value Type) with components that require other definitions,
	or if you have defined a YYSTYPE macro (see Data Types of Semantic
	Values), you need to arrange for these definitions to be propagated
	to all modules, e.g., by putting them in a prerequisite header that
	is included both by your parser and by any other module that needs
	YYSTYPE.

	Unless your parser is pure, the output header declares yylval as an
	external variable. See A Pure (Reentrant) Parser.

	If you have also used locations, the output header declares YYLTYPE
	and yylloc using a protocol similar to that of YYSTYPE and yylval.
	See Tracking Locations.

	This output file is normally essential if you wish to put the
	definition of yylex in a separate source file, because yylex
	typically needs to be able to refer to the above-mentioned
	declarations and to the token type codes. See Semantic Values of
	Tokens. 

- Directive: %destructor

	Specify how the parser should reclaim the memory associated to
	discarded symbols. See Freeing Discarded Symbols. 

- Directive: %file-prefix="prefix"

	Specify a prefix to use for all Bison output file names. The names
	are chosen as if the input file were named prefix.y. 

- Directive: %locations

	Generate the code processing the locations (see Special Features for
	Use in Actions). This mode is enabled as soon as the grammar uses
	the special `@n' tokens, but if your grammar does not use it, using
	`%locations' allows for more accurate syntax error messages. 

- Directive: %name-prefix="prefix"

	Rename the external symbols used in the parser so that they start
	with prefix instead of `yy'. The precise list of symbols renamed in
	C parsers is yyparse, yylex, yyerror, yynerrs, yylval, yychar,
	yydebug, and (if locations are used) yylloc. For example, if you use
	`%name-prefix="c_"', the names become c_parse, c_lex, and so on. In
	C++ parsers, it is only the surrounding namespace which is named
	prefix instead of `yy'. See Multiple Parsers in the Same Program. 

- Directive: %no-parser

	Do not include any C code in the parser file; generate tables only.
	The parser file contains just #define directives and static variable
	declarations.

	This option also tells Bison to write the C code for the grammar
	actions into a file named file.act, in the form of a
	brace-surrounded body fit for a switch statement. 

- Directive: %no-lines

	Don't generate any #line preprocessor commands in the parser file.
	Ordinarily Bison writes these commands in the parser file so that
	the C compiler and debuggers will associate errors and object code
	with your source file (the grammar file). This directive causes them
	to associate errors with the parser file, treating it an independent
	source file in its own right. 

- Directive: %output="file"

	Specify file for the parser file. 

- Directive: %pure-parser

	Request a pure (reentrant) parser program (see A Pure (Reentrant)
	Parser). 

- Directive: %require "version"

	Require version version or higher of Bison. See Require a Version of
	Bison. 

- Directive: %token-table

	Generate an array of token names in the parser file. The name of the
	array is yytname; yytname[i] is the name of the token whose internal
	Bison token code number is i. The first three elements of yytname
	correspond to the predefined tokens "$end", "error", and
	"$undefined"; after these come the symbols defined in the grammar
	file.

	The name in the table includes all the characters needed to
	represent the token in Bison. For single-character literals and
	literal strings, this includes the surrounding quoting characters
	and any escape sequences. For example, the Bison single-character
	literal '+' corresponds to a three-character name, represented in C
	as "'+'"; and the Bison two-character literal string "\\/"
	corresponds to a five-character name, represented in C as
	"\"\\\\/\"".

	When you specify %token-table, Bison also generates macro
	definitions for macros YYNTOKENS, YYNNTS, and YYNRULES, and
	YYNSTATES:

	YYNTOKENS The highest token number, plus one.  YYNNTS The number of
	nonterminal symbols.  YYNRULES The number of grammar rules,
	YYNSTATES The number of parser states (see Parser States). 

- Directive: %verbose

	Write an extra output file containing verbose descriptions of the
	parser states and what is done for each type of look-ahead token in
	that state. See Understanding Your Parser, for more information. 

- Directive: %yacc

	Pretend the option --yacc was given, i.e., imitate Yacc, including
	its naming conventions. See Bison Options, for more. 

